- The number of people using smartphones and tablets is on the rise, as these devices support a wide range of functionalities. Android is the most popular mobile OS, because it is a platform open to all applications. Like other OSes, Android has its vulnerabilities, and not all Android users install patches to keep OS software and apps up to date and secure. This casualness enables attackers to exploit vulnerabilities and launch various types of attacks to steal valuable data stored on the victims’ devices.
- Owing to the extensive usage and implementation of bring your own device (BYOD) policies in organizations, mobile devices have become a prime target for attacks. Attackers scan these devices for vulnerabilities. These attacks can involve the device and the network layer, the data center, or a combination of these.
- As a professional ethical hacker or pen tester, you should be familiar with all the hacking tools, exploits, and payloads to perform various tests mobile devices connected to a network to assess its security infrastructure.
- Android has a stack of software components categorized into six sections (System Apps, Java AP Framework, Native C/C++ Libraries, Android Runtime, Hardware Abstraction Layer [HAL], and Linux kernel) and five layers.
- Owing to the increase in the number of users with Android devices, they have become the primary targets for hackers. Attackers use various Android hacking tools to discover vulnerabilities in the platform, and then exploit them to carry out attacks such as DoS, Man-in-the-Disk, and Spear phone attacks.