- Cloud computing is an emerging technology that delivers computing services such as online business applications, online data storage, and webmail over the Internet. Cloud implementation enables a distributed workforce, reduces organization expenses, provides data security, etc. As enterprises are increasingly adopting cloud services, cloud systems have emerged as targets for attackers to gain unauthorized access to the valuable data stored in them. Therefore, it is essential to regularly perform pen testing on cloud systems to monitor their security posture.
- Security administrators claim that cloud systems are more vulnerable to DoS assaults, because they involves numerous individuals or clients, making DoS assaults potentially very harmful. Because of the high workload on a flooded service, these systems attempt to provide additional computational power (more virtual machines, more service instances) to cope with the workload, and they will eventually fail.
- Although cloud systems try to thwart attackers by providing additional computational power, they inadvertently aid attackers by allowing the most significant possible damage to the availability of a service—a process that starts from a single flooding-attack entry point. Thus, attackers need not flood all servers that provide a particular service but merely flood a single, cloud-based address to a service that is unavailable. Thus, adequate security is vital in this context, because cloud-computing services are based on sharing.