- The first step of hacking web servers for a professional ethical hacker or pen tester is to collect as much information as possible about the target web server and analyze the collected information in order to find lapses in its current security mechanisms. The main purpose is to learn about the web server’s remote access capabilities, its ports and services, and other aspects of its security.

- The information obtained in this step helps in assessing the security posture of the web server. Footprinting may involve searching the Internet, newsgroups, bulletin boards, etc. for gathering information about the target organization’s web server. There are also tools such as Whois.net and Whois Lookup that extract information such as the target’s domain name, IP address, and autonomous system number.

- Web server fingerprinting is an essential task for any penetration tester. Before proceeding to hack or exploit a webserver, the penetration tester must know the type and version of the webserver as most of the attacks and exploits are specific to the type and version of the server being used by the target. These methods help any penetration tester to gain information and analyze their target so that they can perform a thorough test and can deploy appropriate methods to mitigate such attacks on the server.

- An ethical hacker or penetration tester must perform footprinting to detect the loopholes in the web server of the target organization. This will help in predicting the effectiveness of additional security measures for strengthening and protecting the web server of the target organization.
