- DoS/DDoS attacks are one of the foremost security threats on the Internet; thus, there is a greater necessity for solutions to mitigate these attacks. Early detection techniques help to prevent DoS and DDoS attacks. Detecting such attacks is a tricky job. A DoS and DDoS attack traffic detector needs to distinguish between genuine and bogus data packets, which is not always possible; the techniques employed for this purpose are not perfect. There is always a chance of confusion between traffic generated by a legitimate network user and traffic generated by a DoS or DDoS attack. One problem in filtering bogus from legitimate traffic is the volume of traffic. It is impossible to scan each data packet to ensure security from a DoS or DDoS attack. All the detection techniques used today define an attack as an abnormal and noticeable deviation in network traffic statistics and characteristics. These techniques involve the statistical analysis of deviations to categorize malicious and genuine traffic.

- As a professional ethical hacker or pen tester, you must use various DoS and DDoS attack detection techniques to prevent the systems in the network from being damaged.
- The following are the three types of detection techniques:
	- **Activity Profiling**: Profiles based on the average packet rate for a network flow, which consists of consecutive packets with similar packet header information
	- **Sequential Change-point Detection**: Filters network traffic by IP addresses, targeted port numbers, and communication protocols used, and stores the traffic flow data in a graph that shows the traffic flow rate over time
	- **Wavelet-based Signal Analysis**: Analyzes network traffic in terms of spectral components


### Detect and Protect against DDoS Attack using Anti DDoS Guardian

- Anti DDoS Guardian is a DDoS attack protection tool. It protects IIS servers, Apache serves, game servers, Camfrog servers, mail servers, FTP servers, VOIP PBX, and SIP servers and other systems. Anti DDoS Guardian monitors each incoming and outgoing packet in Real-Time. It displays the local address, remote address, and other information of each network flow. Anti DDoS Guardian limits network flow number, client bandwidth, client concurrent TCP connection number, and TCP connection rate. It also limits the UDP bandwidth, UDP connection rate, and UDP packet rate.
